Scotland’s First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said SNP MPs elected in May would back Labour’s bid to repeal the Government’s NHS reforms . Scottish National Party MPs will vote on laws which only apply in England, Nicola Sturgeon has revealed. Scotland’s First Minister said SNP MPs elected in May would back Labour’s bid to repeal the Government’s NHS reforms, even though Holyrood is in complete control of the health service north of the border. The revelation, which sparked fury among Tory MPs in Westminster, comes after George Osborne revealed that the Government would bail out Scotland’s ailing oil industry following demands for Westminster support in the wake of collapsing global prices. It will fuel further calls for a ban on Scottish MPs voting on English-only laws. Tory minister Anna Soubry said Miss Sturgeon was putting the Union at risk again. 'I'm absolutely astonished at the complete twaddle she has just spoken,' she told the BBC. 'She doesn't even understand what's happened and this nonsense - and it is a nonsense - that the Conservatives are on some wide-scale privatisation of the NHS. She puts our Union at risk again and plays with dangerous stuff.' Tory MP John Redwood said the SNP was changing its position on English votes for English laws so it could enter into an agreement with Labour after the election. He said: 'This is a piece of political opportunism by the SNP because she wants to reassure the Labour party that if they fall short, if she wins a lot of seats, they might be able to stitch up a deal together. 'Obviously I want the Conservatives to win and hope this doesn’t arise but I think you have to see it in terms of positioning with the SNP riding a lot higher in the polls getting the idea that they might get their hands on the levers of power for the United Kingdom as a whole.' But Ms Sturgeon insisted any vote on the English NHS had knock-on effects in Scotland because the Edinburgh government’s budget is linked to Westminster spending. She said it was necessary to protect the Scottish NHS from the knock on effects of cuts and privatisation in England. The SNP leader told the BBC: ‘We would be prepared to vote on matters of English health because that has a direct impact on Scotland's budget. ‘So if there was a vote in the House of Commons to repeal the privatisation of the health service as has been seen in England to restore the National Health Service we would vote for that because that would help to protect Scotland's budget. ‘If there are decisions taken to further privatise the NHS in England, and I don't think anybody thinks the Tories are progressively privatising the health service in order to increase the public funding of the health service, so decisions are taken, that reduce over time the public funding of the health service in England then that has a direct knock on effect to Scotland's budget.’ Meanwhile, an Ipsos Mori poll for STV News has found 52 per cent of Scots are planning to vote SNP in May. This is the same as in October last year, while support for Labour has increased by one point to 24 per cent. That would give the Nationalists an incredible 55 of Scotland's 59 seats, with Scottish Labour reduced to a rump of only four MPs - with the Tories and the Lib Dems completely wiped out. Scottish Labour leader Jim Murphy insisted his party 'is changing' and urged voters to leave referendum divisions in the past. George Osborne has said an English-votes-for-English-laws rule would ‘have to apply on areas connected with the Budget’ Despite Ms Sturgeon’s claim, spending on the English NHS has gone up faster than the Scottish NHS in recent years. Between 2009-10 and 2015-16 NHS Scotland cut spending by around 1 per cent - while the health budget in England increased by 4 per cent. The revelation comes ahead of draft legislation on the devolution of extra powers to Holyrood set to be published on Thursday. Appearing before MPs earlier this week, George Osborne said the sweeping new spending powers reinforced the case for restrictions on the voting powers of Scottish MPs. He said an English-votes-for-English-laws rule would ‘have to apply on areas connected with the Budget’. In a message aimed at Ed Balls, who could find himself in No 11 Downing Street after the election as part of a Labour government relying on the support of smaller parties such as the SNP, Mr Osborne also said the chancellor after the next election should not be ‘beholden on Scottish nationalist votes’. David Cameron, at Prime Minister's Questions, has vowed to introduce English votes for English laws . Labour leader Ed Miliband has rejected Mr Cameron's proposal to ban Scottish MPs voting on English-only laws . Once powers to set income tax have been devolved, Scotland would have to ‘live with the consequences’ of its decisions - including if wealthy individuals flee across the border to escape ‘punitive’ rates, Mr Osborne told the Treasury Select Committee. Mr Osborne said proposals for ‘English votes for English laws’ would be published before the general election, but he insisted that it must be the case that Scottish MPs should have their ability to vote on aspects of future Budgets curbed if powers have been devolved. The cross-party Smith Commission on devolution said the Scottish MPs should continue to vote on the UK's Budget, including income tax. Many aspects of the system would remain UK-wide, Mr Osborne said, including the definition of income and the system of reliefs, so MPs from Scottish constituencies would be able to vote on those. The Institute for Fiscal Studies has revealed that an independent Scotland could have been up to £7billion worse off as a result of falling oil revenue. Mr Osborne lambasted predictions made by the SNP during the referendum campaign about the finances North Sea oil would generate for the nation as ‘wildly optimistic’. He told the Commons Treasury select committee: ‘I took decisions in the Autumn Statement to reduce taxes on North Sea oil, anticipating the pressures that the falling oil price would have on the industry and I'm sure we are going to have to take further steps at the Budget. ‘But we can only do that because we are United Kingdom and we pool our risks.’ The collapse in the price of oil would mean an independent Scotland would now be sacking doctors, nurses and teachers, Danny Alexander claimed. The Chief Secretary to the Treasury said Scots had 'dodged a bullet' by rejecting independence in last year's referendum. The Scottish government is now demanding tax cuts to bailout the oil industry, just four months after claiming that booming North Sea reserves would bankroll independence. The oil industry has been plunged into crisis after the price of a barrel of Brent crude halved since June to around $48 . The price of a barrel of Brent crude – the global benchmark – has more than halved since June to around $48 (£31.50). Experts predict it could fall as low as $31 (£20.44) by April. Mr Alexander said: 'Talk about Scotland having dodged a bullet. If we had been independent we wouldn't just be worrying about a very serious situation in the North Sea, the Scottish government would be working out how many nurses and doctors and teachers it would have to make redundant because it would have run out of money for a lot of those things. 'If we were independent right now the effect on Scotland's finances would be utterly catastrophic. Last summer Westminster parties were accused of scaremongering by the SNP for warning an independent Scotland would be vulnerable to a drop in oil prices. 'As it turns out the things that we said were rather mild compared to what actually happened. 'There's still a lot of oil and gas there, we want to make sure we get it out. That's what I've always wanted. 'But it's only because of the strength and stability of the United Kingdom that we have the ability to make those decisions rather than an independent Scotland which wouldn't just be beset by serious problems in the North Sea but by a fiscal crisis as well. 'Because we are part of the United Kingdom we don't have to confront that.' He warned the situation facing the oil and gas sector is 'serious' and further help will be offered in the Budget in March.'
