If you have even the slightest fear of heights, look away now. These pictures taken from footage showing a Russian teenager climbing around a crane 1,000ft up in the sky are enough to make your palms sweat even if you have never suffered from vertigo. The youth is seen walking along the crane as if it were a tightrope, without showing even a flicker of fear at being so far from the ground. Scroll down for video . With no rope or safety harness, the youth clambers about the crane seemingly untroubled by how high up he is . Hundreds of feet above even the roofs of the tower blocks, the fearless youth walks casually along a crane . Balanced precariously on top of the crane's dusty bars, the youth clambers about it with casual skill . Dangling vertiginously, the youth performed his death-defying stunts without a care in the world . Without a safety harness, hard hat or even a rope, he confidently walks - and even skips - along the red metal crane in his trainers. The three-minute clip, posted on Youtube, shows his astonishing courage (or should that read foolhardiness?) as he casually strips off his jumper and puts on a woolly hat for his sky-high work-out . The boy, who looks little older than 16 or 17, then climbs over the side and hangs from just one hand. The cars in the street below are so tiny they look like toys as he does monkey bars dangling off the crane. And the roofs of the surrounding tower blocks look a long way below the crane where the boy is gambolling about like a carefree toddler in a playground. In one heart-stopping moment, he does pull-ups with one hand as he hangs from the crane, before pulling himself up and back on top of it again. VIDEO: This footage will terrify even those of the strongest disposition . The cars below are so tiny they look like children's toys as the young man does monkey bars in the sky above them . Using core muscle strength that will impress many a pilates devotee, the youth flips up and over the bars . Filmed by a friend, the youth is shown dangling from the crane's dusty bars without even a rope in case he falls . Eventually, just when the viewer's nerves can take it no longer, the film stops with the logo Dangerous For Life. It has already been viewed by tens of thousands of armchair adventurers, though most of those who commented on Youtube realised the danger the youth was putting himself in. One wrote: This crazy kid is probably going to be responsible for so many tragic deaths, if not his own. 'It would be really cool to watch a reaction video of his mother watching this.' Another wrote: 'Man, those kids are dumb.' With no specialist climbing gear and only a pair of white plimsolls, the Russian youth shows astonishing strength . In just a woolly hat to keep his head warm, the young man swings around the crane's bars as if he were at the park . The youth is shown climbing up to the top of the crane before taking off his stripy jumper and pulling on a woolly hat . The fearless crane climber looks young and barely 16 or 17 years old in a close-up shot of him before his stunts . Displaying astonishing foolhardiness, the young boy hands on by one hand as he shows off his strength . Footage apparently taken from a camera worn on the youth's hat shows tower block roofs far below . The footage shows how dizzyingly high the teenager was when he performed his terrifying stunts . Nothing is known about the young man, shown here changing his top before his stunts on the Russian crane .
