Four frogs, 22 birds and 27 mammals have become extinct since Australian colonisation and now the Bramble Cay melomys can be added to the list. The mouse-like creature has not been sighted since 2007 at the Torres Strait's Bramble Cay on Australia's most northern tip. Scientists appointed by Gregory Andrews - the nation's first Threatened Species Commissioner - were also unable to find traces of it in the Torres Strait's Bramble Cay. The Western Barred Bandicoot, one of 27 mammals have become extinct since Australian colonisation . The melomys was found only in four to five hectares of the area, and related to rats and mice, according to The Conversation. World Wildlife Fund Australia's conservation scientist Martin Taylor said Australia had the highest extinction rate in the world in the past 200 years for mammals. 'It really affects critical weight range mammals who are smallish mammals, a bit like Bramble Cay melomys,' he told Daily Mail Australia. 'Part of the reason why is they are ground dwelling mammals that are prey for exotic cats and foxes. Those are the sorts of mammals that go extinct.' The Christmas Island pipsterelle was the most recent animal to go extinct. The Lord Howe Boobook Owl, which is on the Federal Department of Environment list of extinct animals . Usually scientists wait at least 50 years before declaring an animal to be extinct. The Federal Department of Environment has a full list of extinct animals, including the Western Barred Bandicoot, Paradise Parrot and the Lord Howe Boobook Owl. But Dr Taylor said some of these extinct animals can be kept in captivity, while others do not exist on the mainland, they can still call an island home. For example, the Tasmanian Tiger lived on the mainland until 4,000 years ago when the dingo was introduced and was confined to Tasmania before becoming extinct in the 1920s. Dr Taylor said more direct efforts to conserve endangered species needed to be ramped up, not just through funding, but legislation as well. 'Money is definitely an issue but it's also how that money is applied. A lot of money is spent on ethical land care and natural resources management but not to obtain enduring change in the landscape,' he said. Paradise Parrot, last last seen alive in 1927. Usually scientists wait at least 50 years before declaring an animal to be extinct. 'First thing that could be done is protecting Commonwealth threatened species. 'We get $2 billion over five years so we should make sure this money is spent on enduring change and conservation. 'The biggest and strongest thing to do is to protect species by buying buy a national park to protect [where the species live]. 'But it's not just money, we've got legislation to stop land clearing, which has probably been far more effective than anything. 'We see the government in Queensland, for example, weakening that legislation and this is increasing the threat to native wildlife.'
