It is an advertising slogan that has stood the test of time, and made its way into the consciousness of an entire nation. But the days of baking giants Mr Kipling referring to its cakes as 'exceedingly good' could be coming to an end amidst a multi-million pound rebrand. The famous phrase, which featured in some way in virtually every TV advert, poster and piece of packaging since 1967, could be scrapped as the brand draws up new designs and shifts its focus towards individual 'snack pack' items. Classic: The 'exceedingly good' catchphrase has been featured for decades. The advert above aired in 1985 . Enduring: The phrase, first used in 1967, helped make Mr Kipling the nation's biggest cake-maker. Above is an advert continuing the tradition in 1997 . Gavin Darby, the chief executive of Premier Foods, which owns the Kipling brand, said he was 'on the verge' of replacing the slogan as part of £20million of new investment. When asked whether the phrase - which is sometimes spoken by the mysterious Mr Kipling and sometimes about him - could be dropped, he said: 'It's possible. Well, we'll see. We're on the verge of agreeing the TV commercial. Mr Kipling's range including bakewell . tarts and fruit slices, have been the bestselling cake brand in Britain . for almost 40 years. Earlier ads centred on Mr Kipling, a kindly uncle figure, inviting people to his house to test his new creations which were, invariably, dubbed 'exceedingly good'. The original voice featured in the article belonged to Barry Linehan's, who died of cancer in 1996. His ten-year stint on the commercial saw sales boom. At time of his death, long-time friend Brian McDermott said: 'Everyone called him Mr Kipling and his voice was his trademark. He had a successful career and was much more than just a voice.' Refresh: The brand's packaging and style has gone through many changes, but has always retained the central phrase. Pictured above is a 2012 version . Beloved: The phrase has worked its way into the popular imagination, thanks to its long-running association. Above is Mr Kipling packaging bearing the slogan in 2003 . Seasonal: Variants of the phrase were used for other products, such as these 2004 mince pies . Later versions, including a 1984 Christmas ad, saw Mr Kipling made the victim of his own success when so many carol singers gathered at his house, lured in by his mince pies, that he couldn't get them to leave. The campaigns took a more humorous direction in the early 2000s, which saw Mr Kipling made into a more accident-prone figure. Despite making gaffes including filling a bouncy castle with helium so that it flew away, and making a live birth the centrepiece of a nativity play, Mr Kipling was forgiven because of the quality of his baking. The man himself has never been pictured in any of the adverts, though occasional silhouettes have featured. Six in ten British households bought a Mr Kipling product last year. #heritage: The slogan survived into the social media age, as seen in the advert from last Christmas . Memories: Strong feelings have been raised by the prospect of change from such a household brand, shown above in 1994 . But . a financial crisis at Premier Foods, which also owns Ambrosia and . Hovis, in the last few years has seen a lack of advertising and . marketing budget spent on the brand. Mr . Darby added: 'The cake category is our focus for 2014. This has been . the brand that's been the casualty of Premier having no money. 'It's a £1billion category and we've invested almost nothing in advertising and very little in new product development.' 'We're going to have new packaging, new advertising and doubling of our capacity to produce Mr Kipling snack packs, which is where we're getting a lot of our growth.' But fans of the cakes have already taken to social media sites to voice their anger at the dropping of the slogan. One said: 'That famous voice and advertising slogan very often made me buy Mr Kipling cakes. Abandoning it seems unnecessary (and therefore unwise).' Another said: 'Premier Foods' senior managers are a bunch of t**spots. They have no idea of the value of their intellectual property.'
