Passport Office staff received bonuses totalling nearly £700,000 this summer at the height of the backlog shambles. Taxpayer-funded payouts worth up to £5,000 were paid out to staff as the agency was mired in crisis and hundreds of thousands of holiday-makers waited for their travel documents. Details of the payouts sparked fury last night as critics accused the Government of 'rewarding failure'. Official figures released to Labour under the Freedom of Information Act showed some £674,000 was paid out in bonuses in July. A photo leaked by staff showed the boxes of passport applications which piled up in an office in Liverpool this summer as the backlog of documents grew . But despite the shambles, figures now reveal staff at the Passport Office have been paid £700,000 in bonuses . Some 3,800 members of staff including some managers received payouts for the last financial year. One staff member was paid £5,000, eight up to £2,000 and 198 up to £1,000. Only weeks earlier, in June, David Cameron apologised over the passports chaos which at one point involved a backlog of half a million documents. Outraged families deluged the Daily Mail with horror stories of missing out on their holidays because of bureaucratic incompetence. A surge in applications early this year increased during the Spring and Summer and led to staggering backlogs. Shadow immigration minister David Hanson says hundreds of thousands of pounds in taxpayers' money has been handed over as a 'reward for failure' Staff leaked photographs of boxes of applications stacked up in passport offices waiting to be processed.Some applicants were told to cough up an extra £55 to get their applications fast tracked. David Hanson, the shadow immigration minister, said: 'Ministers must explain themselves. They have signed off hundreds of thousands of taxpayer pounds to reward failure. 'Families who struggled to go on holiday because of passport chaos will be even more dismayed at this waste and extravagance as they struggle to pay day-to-day bills. 'This is yet another example of ministerial incompetence and waste.' At the time, the Home Office claimed it was dealing with record numbers of passport applications, but unions blamed staff cuts and incompetence. Paul Pugh, director of the Passport Office, told MPs on the Home Affairs Committee in June that he would not take a bonus this year. A Home Office spokesman said staff were rewarded because the Passport Office achieved seven out of its eight performance targets. He said: 'A bonus payment was made to some junior staff at HM Passport Office for reaching key targets in 2013/14 – the vast majority received less than £500. 'None of these payments was for work carried out during this financial year,' he said.
