A former top 40 radio DJ this week announced that he is undergoing surgery to become a woman. Simon Hirst, 39, who worked for Capital FM in Yorkshire until June,  revealed in an interview that she is now called Stephanie, and is halfway through gender reassignment treatment. Today, she made her first professional outing as a woman and now there’s a Facebook campaign to get her back on the radio. Writing on Twitter, she told her 37,000 followers: 'YES! Just done my first industry appearance as my true self the Radio Festival. 'This is me and I feel ALIVE.' Scroll down for video . Simon Hirst, 39, who worked for Capital FM in Yorkshire until June, made her first professional outing as a woman named Stephanie today . Stephen Nolan (right) and Simon Hirst (left) who has revealed that she is changing gender in order to live life as a woman . Writing on Twitter, she told her 37,000 followers: 'YES! Just done my first industry appearance as my true self the Radio Festival' The  DJ (right) left the breakfast show on Capital FM Yorkshire in June. In an interview with Stephen Nolan (left) on BBC Radio 5 Live, Hirst revealed she will become a woman because he 'doesn't want to hide anymore' Support: Now there's a Facebook petition to get her back on the radio with over 22,000 likes . The well-liked DJ left Hirsty's Daily Dose breakfast show at the start of the summer. In an interview with Stephen Nolan on BBC Radio 5 Live, Hirst revealed she had made the decision to become a woman because she 'doesn't want to hide anymore. 'There were many times on the air in recent years where I nearly said that I'm transgender,' she said. 'I knew from around the same time that I knew I wanted to be on the radio that something wasn't right. 'I didn't feel complete, I didn't feel like it locked. I felt like a square peg in a round hole but I didn't know why and I couldn't work it out.' Stephanie has received messages of support from loyal listeners keen to have the personality back on-air . Hirst, also hosted the Hit40UK national commercial radio Top 40 chart between 2003 and 2006. She says she took the decision to leave the popular breakfast show because: 'I got to the point in my life where I had to stop doing what I was doing to have some time out to focus on me, because I have devoted my entire life to radio'. She said the torment of carrying the secret around was like 'someone poking you in the arm constantly, just tapping you. It's like that every single day'. 'From the minute I woke up to the minute I went to sleep it was always there. 'The thought was there in my head constantly.' Hirst said: 'I'd drive home in the car - I'd be driving home on the M1 and, honestly, I could have just turned the wheel to the central reservation. I didn't of course. Or I would scream. 'I remember sitting in my kitchen rocking backwards and forwards going "just make this stop, go away, leave me alone" and I felt like she was eating me up inside.' Asked how listeners would react, she said: 'I'm just me, I'm the same person. 'I'm not going to flounce around in flowery dresses all day. I'm just me, I'm just a human being, I still love people, still care for people the same way - nothing changes. 'And for anyone who is going through this or anyone who's thinking of going through this we don't change, we don't change. Yes, the exterior changes but we're still the same people.' Simon Hirst and Katy Hill at the Brit Awards 2005 Shortlist Announcement. Hirst said he chose the name Stephanie to link with his old life, and to keep his initials . Hirst said she chose the name Stephanie to link with her old life. 'My name was Simon Neil Hirst and I still want to keep my initials because it's important to me, that. 'Some people in my position want to eradicate their past and forget about it. (But) I'm very proud of what I have done in my past and I'm not going to erase that or try and get rid of it. I can't and I don't want to, it's who I am.' 'I can get up and I can be myself and for me that encapsulates everything. I don't have to hide anymore, don't have to hide anymore. I can be me. I am a woman - and that's it.' A Capital Yorkshire spokesperson said: 'We don’t comment on people’s personal matters. We were sad to see Hirsty leave the breakfast show and we wish her all the best in the future.' The full interview is at www.bbc.co.uk/podcasts/series/5lnews .
