It came from a faraway land - and gave Britain its first glimpse of a bizarre looking creature previously unknown to these shores. It stood upright, carried its young in a pouch and propelled itself in a series of giant leaps. Meet the kongouro, as depicted by celebrated 18th century British artist George Stubbs (perhaps better known for his animal paintings than for his spelling). The image was created from a combination of sketches, anecdotes and a preserved kangaroo skin that Captain James Cook brought back from his first voyage of discovery to the Pacific. Kongouro: George Stubbs' painting was created from a combination of sketches, anecdotes and a preserved kangaroo skin that Captain James Cook brought back from his first voyage of discovery to the Pacific . Stubbs is believed to have had the skin inflated to create a model from which to paint his masterpiece. The name 'kongouro' appears to have been a taken from a mishearing of what Aborigines called the 8ft marsupial. Yesterday a long-running tussle over whether the UK or Australia should provide a home for the painting, and for a partner work depicting a dingo, was finally resolved. Kongouro and 'Portrait of a Large Dog', the first known images of Australian animals in Western art, are to stay in Britain after an appeal backed by Sir David Attenborough. A £1.5million donation from shipping magnate Eyal Ofer enabled the National Maritime Museum in Greenwich to buy them. Stubbs, who died in 1806, was predominantly a painter of horses, dogs and sporting subjects. His portraits horses, studied in meticulous detail, were breathtakingly realistic and made him the foremost artist in this field. Portrait of a Large Dog: The image which first showed a dingo will now be allowed to stay in Britain after a £1.5million donation from shipping magnate Eyal Ofer allowed the National Maritime Museum in Greenwich to buy them . Those of the kangaroo and the dingo (which was based only on eyewitness accounts of the animal) were rare examples of oil paintings that represented exotic specimens from the extraordinary New World - a landmark in transmitting knowledge of Australia to Britain. Each was signed and dated 1772 and were shown at the Royal Academy the next year. Yesterday Sir David described them as 'so important in the history of zoological discovery' and said it was 'exciting news that they are to remain where they were commissioned and painted'.
