England went from one extreme to the other, their near perfect display in the first one-day international being replaced by a shambolic one as they were blown away by Sri Lanka in conditions that seemed made for them. It was cold and cloudy at Chester-le-Street but Sri Lanka looked completely at home as they inflicted on  England their heaviest defeat in a one-day international they have staged — 157 runs — by blasting them out for just 99. This was a golden opportunity for England to take a 2-0 lead in their first series under new management, particularly after they had won the toss, but Sri Lanka made them look just like the novices they so often seemed in Australia. Sri Lanka's Sachithra Senanayake (centre) celebrates the crucial wicket of Englands Ravi Bopara . Joe Root was bowled for a duck as England's top order were blown away . Kumar Sangakkara smashes the ball for six on his way to a quick-fire 40 . Sri Lanka's Nuwan Kulasekara celebrates the big wicket of Ian Bell . England’s problems in one-day cricket . usually crop up overseas when the sun shines and the pitch is flat but . here they were outplayed and out-classed by a Sri Lanka team who . effectively beat them at their own 50-over game. Sri . Lanka showed England how it should be done in what should have been a . testing environment in May at the most northerly Test ground in the . world, keeping wickets in hand before building a respectable total. Then, . when England set off for what should have been a gettable chase, their . top order had no answer to the seam of Nuwan Kulasekara, who gained more . movement off the pitch than a home attack led by Jimmy Anderson. Admittedly . England were without Alastair Cook, who was ruled out with a groin . injury. He could have been expected to have shown much more solidity . against the  moving ball than yesterday’s sorry bunch. Yet . Cook’s absence was no excuse for England, who were shoddy in the field, . bowling 15 wides and dropping two catches, and even worse with the bat, . with only stand-in captain Eoin Morgan going down fighting. ‘That . was one of the worst performances I’ve ever been involved in,’ said . Morgan. ‘It was abysmal, really, and I just can’t explain why we played . that badly. We’ve played a lot of cricket here and that was a pitch . which should have suited us. We just didn’t play at all and we will have . to draw a line under this and up our game in Manchester.’ England . had won their previous four ODIs before yesterday, but their problems . began quickly when they were unable to make significant inroads with the . two new balls. The vastly . experienced Sri Lanka top order had more than enough nous to repel an . England attack which seemed, in the absence of Stuart Broad and Ben . Stokes, to be a bowler short, with Ravi Bopara more a fifth seamer than . fourth. Tillekaratne Dilshan . has made his name as an innovative destroyer but he showed here that he . can apply himself too, providing the backbone of the Sri Lanka innings . with 88 before being bowled by a beauty from Chris Jordan. But . that delivery was a rarity and, even though there was  no swing for . their bowlers, they could not seem to avoid bowling wides, Jordan and . Harry Gurney being the worst offenders with five apiece. Gurney was . flattered by his three wickets and was guilty, along with Bopara, of a . bad drop as Sri Lanka gained late momentum through Ashan Priyanjan and . added 87 in their last 10 overs. ‘We never drop catches in practice  so . this is becoming a huge annoyance,’ added Morgan. England's injured captain Alistair Cook takes a close-up looks at the action . Cook watched on as England's batting line-up played dismally . Not a pretty sight: Cook looks most unimpressed with what is happening out in the middle . Cook couldn't watch any more as England collapased to 99 all out . Sachithra Senanayake wheels away after taking the early wicket of Chris Jordan . A . score of 256 for eight should have been within England’s reach but they . ended up  falling an incredible 157 runs short and barely lasted more . than halfway through their allotted overs as they crumbled before a . disappointing Durham crowd of 10,570. Only . Morgan and Ian Bell reached double figures and after Kulasekara had . knocked the early stuffing out of  England, the unorthodox spin of . Sachithra Senanayake proved far too much for the lower order with four . cheap wickets. This was the . sixth worst one-day international total of all time for England, while . their paltry innings accrued only 13 more runs than their worst ever, 86 . against Australia at Old Trafford in 2001. Sangakarra dives over the crease to survive a run-out attempt . It . is to Manchester they go now for Wednesday’s third match with the . series level, and England will hope that Cook will be fit to regain his . place ahead of Michael  Carberry, who blew his chance here to prove he . can bat at this level as well as he can moan about perceived  injustices . in Australia. Broad, . meanwhile, made his comeback for Nottinghamshire after knee problems but . is the subject of a complaint from Pakistan over comments of his own he . made on Twitter about the bowling action of another mystery spinner in . Saeed Ajmal. The man who was . badly missed by England here at Durham appeared to question the . legality of Ajmal’s action, prompting Pakistan to ask for an explanation . from England. They will have to explain themselves for this sorry  performance first. Chris Jordan jumps for joy after taking the wicket of Tillakaratne Dilshan .
