Family and friends of a woman who was set alight by her boyfriend of 25 years as she slept in their bed have raised about $65,000 (£42,700) for her ongoing treatment. Lynn Fuller, from California, U.S. remains in a critical condition in a coma after being doused with a flammable liquid and set on fire by her partner. She suffered third degree burns on 75 per cent of her body. The fire destroyed her home, where she lived with her sister and niece, but now thousands of pounds has been raised to pay medical bills and help them rebuild their shattered lives. Horrific: Lynn Fuller remains in a coma after being doused with a flammable liquid and set on fire by partner. She suffered third degree burns on 75 per cent of her body . Fundraising: A horse-riding event last week raised almost $10,000 to help Ms Fuller, a horse veterinarian's assistant, and her family . On December 28 last year, Ms Fuller was set on fire by her boyfriend, Vidal Webb, 41, according to her fundraising page. Webb was arrested on suspicion of arson causing great bodily injury and attempted murder after a  stand-off with police. According to NBC San Diego, he was found dead in prison. Ms Fuller was placed in a drug-induced coma and although she is expected to survive, her journey to recovery will be a long one and she has no health insurance. Friend Christen Hanley told Fox 5 News: 'I couldn't even fathom who could have done something to one of the nicest, warmest, friendliest, most positive, sweetest people that I have known.' A horse-riding event last week raised almost $10,000 (£6,600) to help Ms Fuller, a horse veterinarian's assistant, and her family. 'Lynn is one of the most vivacious, sweet and happy people I have ever had the blessing of knowing,' a friend posted on the fundraising page. 'Lynn needs our love and help in every way possible. Horse ride: Lynn Fuller is a horse veterinarian's assistant and friends raised almost $10,000 to help pay her medical bills at a hack . Sale: Those unable to donate money brought along items to be sold. The money will pay for medical bills and help get Ms Fuller and her family back on their feet . 'She lived with her sister Rhonda and niece Olivia. Miraculously, neither of them was injured, however, their home is gone and most of their belongings. 'Please help us do our part in loving and supporting them as much as possible during this time in their lives.' Ms Fuller, who is at UC San Diego Medical Center, has been undergoing skin grafts - the most recent on Friday on her upper body. An update posted on the fundraising page reveals she has not developed any infections but has suffered heart problems. It adds: 'Rhonda and Olivia have just found a condo that will accept them and their two dogs as their new tenants. 'Rhonda and Olivia have their own struggles as they begin to rebuild their lives, with two rescued dogs, no furniture and limited resources to begin their new home.' Treatment: Ms Fuller, who is at UC San Diego Medical Center, has been undergoing skin grafts after she suffered third degree burns .
