Steven Gerrard silenced his critics with a passing masterclass - with more than 90 per cent accuracy - and a goal in the Merseyside derby. Click here for his stats and all the players' heat maps in our brilliant Match Zone. For two proud captains, this was the Redemption Derby. Steven Gerrard and Phil Jagielka have each been on the receiving end of unaccustomed criticism this season but neither Brendan Rodgers nor Roberto Martinez could have done without them yesterday. Gerrard went first in a pulsating derby, pulling rank on Mario Balotelli to take a 65th-minute free-kick and curl it exquisitely past Everton goalkeeper Tim Howard. Overtaken by the emotion of it all, the 34-year-old midfielder let out a joyous screech of pure adrenalin and cupped his hand to his ear — a response to the abuse Evertonians had given him all afternoon. It looked as if it would be the latest Gerrard classic winner until Jagielka improbably stepped forward in the second minute of injury time and hit a 25-yard screamer that would still be travelling if the net had not stopped it. Everton celebrate the injury time equaliser from Phil Jagielka (right) after his stunning half-volley clinched a draw in the Merseyside derby . As the graphic demonstrates, Jagielka's stunning drive was clocked at 58mph as it flew off the defender's boot and into the back of Simon Mignolet's net . Steven Gerrard celebrates giving his side the lead from a free-kick in the 65th minute at Anfield . Liverpool (4-2-3-1): Mignolet 5.5; Manquillo 7, Skrtel 7.5, Lovren 7, Moreno 7.5; Gerrard 8, Henderson 8.5; Sterling 8, Lallana 7.5, Markovic 5 (Coutinho 60); Balotelli 6 (Lambert 88) Subs not used: Jones (GK), Enrique, Toure, Lambert, Coutinho, Lucas, Suso . Manager: Brendan Rodgers 7.5 . Goal: Gerrard 64 . Booked: Gerrard, Moreno . Everton (4-3-3): Howard 5.5; Hibbert 5.5 (Browning '73), Stones 7, Jagielka 8, Baines 6.5; McCarthy 7, Barry 5.5, Besic 7 (Eto'o '80); Lukaku 5, Naismith 6, Mirallas 6 (McGeady '31) Subs not used: Robles (GK), Gibson, Osman, Alcaraz . Manager: Roberto Martinez 6.5 . Goal: Jagielka 90+1 . Booked: Barry . Referee: Martin Atkinson6 . Attendance: 44,511 . ‘I have never seen a better strike live,’ said Everton boss Martinez. ‘It was incredible, though it probably it helps it was in the last minute, at Anfield and for my team.’ There was something poignant about both players hauling their team-mates up by their bootstraps for the biggest game of the season for supporters. Gerrard has suffered a slow start to the season and found it difficult to recover from the twin blows of making a mistake that cost Liverpool the Premier League title last season and then captaining England to their World Cup failure in Brazil. No wonder he enjoyed his brilliant set-piece goal. ‘I’ll agree with the constructive criticism and I’ve been stifled in a couple of games when people have followed me around and I haven’t been able to shake them off,’ he said. ‘But then people take it too far and say that “He’s 34 and he can’t run and he’s finished”. I can still compete with the best players around.’ After seeing Balotelli miss with a series of free-kicks in the first half, he had no hesitation in grabbing the ball when the Italian had been fouled by Leighton Baines. ‘You get a feeling for free-kicks in certain areas of the pitch and I fancied it,’ he said. Rodgers was a bit more forthright. ‘I was screaming for Steven to take it because I know his quality in those situations. But he is so selfless he sometimes wants others to have an opportunity.’ The Liverpool boss was adamant that Gerrard’s goal should have been the winner and in terms of possession and chances he was unquestionably right. Everton could have seen Gareth Barry sent off early for a series of indiscretions, starting with a first-minute foul on Adam Lallana and were relieved when Balotelli hit the crossbar from four yards out following Raheem Sterling’s cross. But the visitors showed tremendous character to pour bodies forward in the closing stages. Just after the stadium announcer told 45,000 fans there would be three minutes of added time, Aiden McGeady whipped a cross into a crowded penalty area. Dejan Lovren got good distance with his clearing header but Jagielka returned it with interest with a strike that hit Liverpool goalkeeper Simon Mignolet’s top-left hand corner like a bullet. Liverpool's Adam Lallana (left) goes down after a strong, late, challenge from Everton's Gareth Barry early on in the Merseyside derby . Romelu Lukaku is brought down in the penalty area by Liverpool's Alberto Moreno leading to frenzied appeals from Everton to referee Martin Atkinson for a penalty . Striker Lukaku falls after the challenge from Moreno but Atkinson waves away calls for a spot kick from the visitors . Alberto Moreno (centre) and Jordan Henderson (right) plead with Atkinson for a penatly after the ball appeared to strike Barry on the arm . The evidence isn't in favour of the Everton midfielder after he raises his left and it blocks the powerful shot from Raheem Sterling. It was the 32-year-old defender’s seventh Premier League goal in seven years at Everton and, like Gerrard’s, followed plenty of recent criticism for his displays at the World Cup and his club shipping goals. Martinez said: ‘There has been talk of a World Cup hangover and I think that has been really unfair. He has set high standards and cares like nobody else. ‘It would have been easy for him as a centre-half to stay in his position while we’re chasing the game. But he came forward because of his belief and sense of responsibility he has. He showed the way to face adversity. Nobody deserved to score more than him.’ Given the form of both teams going into the 223rd Merseyside derby, a goal glut was widely predicted. Everton had conceded 17 goals in seven games and Liverpool had been beaten in three of their five Premier League outings. The opening was as ferocious as in any previous derby. Barry was booked for his early go at Lallana and could have been sent off either for handling Sterling’s shot inside the area or clipping Balotelli, both inside the first 11 minutes. Neither was given by referee Martin Atkinson, who also waved away Everton appeals for a penalty when Alberto Moreno shoved Romelu Lukaku. Everton were lucky to reach half-time on terms, with Howard making excellent stops to deny Balotelli and Lallana. Kevin Mirallas is clearly in pain as he clutches his hamstring before being forced to leave the pitch in the first half against Liverpool . Lukaku (left) and substitute Samuel Eto'o (right) show their concern for as Mirallas as he goes down over the sideline with a leg injury . Liverpool captain Steven Gerrard (left) tries to keep tabs on Everton's Steven Naismith . Lukaku's arms are splayed as he attempts to evade a sliding challenge from Liverpool's Javi Manquillo . Everton keeper Tim Howard makes himself big as Mario Balotelli makes an attempt on goal . Phil Jagielka was involved three times in the lead-up to his blistering equaliser for Everton ... for more go to our brilliant Match Zone . The move that ended with Phil Jagielka's cracking goal started with the England defender before he pounced on Dejan Lovren's inadequate clearance from the box . They also had to regroup when Kevin Mirallas strained his hamstring and had to be replaced by McGeady. Balotelli was targeted in the second half, with Tony Hibbert eyeballed by the Italian after a scissor-kick challenge to win the ball. But the Italian’s penchant for over-dramatising any challenge did not earn him any sympathy from the referee. Italian striker Balotelli strikes a free-kick sweetly but doesn't manage to find the back of the net for Liverpool . The flight of the ball after Balotelli's free-kick from just outside the penalty area as the Everton wall jumps . Dynamic as ever, Raheem Sterling (right) takes an ambitious shot with his left foot under attention from Tony Hibbert (centre) Lukaku gets one back on Moreno with an outstretched leg after their first half clash in the penalty area . Speedy defender Moreno is upended in the challenge from Lukaku . However, it was Balotelli who won the all-important free-kick for the goal when he was brought down after ghosting past Baines. Gerrard, sent off the last time Everton won at Anfield in 1999, did the rest with precision. Despite his disappointment at not winning, Rodgers was pleased with his side’s improvement after what he called a ‘broken’ start to the season. ‘We were clearly the better side and didn’t get what we deserved,’ he said. Everton still have not won on enemy territory this century. But after their late escape, they will not care — for this weekend at least. Steven Gerrard shapes to strike the free-kick that gave Liverpool a 1-0 lead in the Merseyside derby . Steven Gerrard hits his free-kick perfectly as it beats the jumping Toffees wall . Gerrard laps up the adulation as Anfield urupts after his free-kick put Liverpool ahead . Liverpool players rush to smother their captain Gerrard after his goal . Gerrard gestures seemingly in response to recent criticism of his form being below its usual lofty standard . Gerrard slides into the corner as he celebrates yet another goal at Anfield . Balotelli almost makes it 2-0 as he blasts a volley from a stellar Sterling cross beyond Everton keeper Howard but it clatters into the crossbar. Balotelli fails to keep his volley down after Sterling put a second goal for Liverpool on a platter for him with an excellent run down the left side. Jagielka drains the equaliser with a sensational half-volley in the 90th minute . Unlikely hero Jagielka reacts after his blistering right-footed drive catches the underside of the crossbar and nestles in the back of the net.
