Vincenzo Nibali strengthened his stranglehold on the Tour de France when he gained further ground over his rivals in the second Alpine stage won by Poland's Rafal Majka on Saturday. Astana rider Nibali finished the 14th stage, a 177-km mountain trek from Grenoble, in second place but beat Alejandro Valverde by one minute as the battle for second overall looks set to go to the wire. Valverde trails Nibali by 4:37 overall with Romain Bardet in third place 13 seconds further back after he, fellow Frenchman Thibaut Pinot and American Tejay van Garderen dropped Valverde in the closing stages of the final climb to the ski resort of Risoul. Winner: Polish rider Rafal Majka crosses the line to win the 14th stage of the 101st Tour de France . Elation: Rafal Majka punches the air after finishing first in the 14th stage of the Tour . Leader: Vincenzo Nibali, wearing the yellow jersey, strengthened his hold on top spot in the 14th stage . Tough start: The peloton begins the climb of the Col d'Izoard early on in the 14th stage . General Classification after Stage 14 . 1. Vincenzo Nibali, Italy, Astana - 61 hours, 52 minutes, 54 seconds2. Alejandro Valverde, Spain, Movistar - 4 minutes, 37 seconds behind.3. Romain Bardet, France, AG2R La Mondiale - 4:504. Thibaut Pinot, France, FDJ.fr - 5:065. Tejay van Garderen, United States, BMC Racing - 5:496. Jean-Christophe Peraud, France, AG2R La Mondiale - 6:087. Bauke Mollema, Netherlands, Belkin Pro Cycling - 8:338. Leopold Konig, Czech Republic, NetApp-Endura - 9:329. Laurens ten Dam, Netherlands, Belkin Pro Cycling - 10:0110. Pierre Rolland, France, Europcar - 10:48 . Pinot is fourth overall 5mins 6secs off the . pace, 43secs ahead of Van Garderen while another Frenchman, . Jean-Christophe Peraud, is sixth (6mins 8secs) after taking third place in the . stage. Bardet's AG2R-La . Mondiale, whose ambition is to win the team classification and the white . jersey for the best Under-25 rider, tried several coups on a nervous . day. Knowing that Pinot is . cautious of speedy downhills, they pushed hard in the descent from the . Col d'Izoard, at 2,360 metres the highest point of this year's Tour. Bardet . and Peraud, followed by Nibali and his team mate Jakob Fuglsang, went . ahead. Valverde managed to bridge the gap, as well as Pinot although he . struggled a lot. 'We did . not just do it for Pinot, we did it for all the overall contenders. I . said to my team to set a high pace in the descent because it's the way . of racing that I like,' said Bardet. Sunshine: Nibali, wearing the overall leader's yellow jersey, rides in the pack past a sunflower field . Gradient: The pack of riders tackle the initial climb at the start of the 14th stage . Tough-going: The 14th stage from Grenoble to Risoul involved a grueling mountain trek . 'I'm clearly happy because I took time on Valverde.' 'It's a good sign that they're attacking me on the descents,' said Pinot. 'They can't do it on the climbs, so they're targeting my weakness.' Van Garderen was dropped but eventually made it back into the yellow jersey group with the help of his BMC team mates. AG2R . set a high pace from the start of the final climb, a 12.6-km ascent at . 6.9 per cent, while Majka showed he was the strongest in the breakaway . group by going solo. Picturesque: The pack of riders cycles on its way in the Alps mountains during the 177km 14th stage . Breakaway: The leading group with Britain's Geraint Thomas, front left, climbs towards Lautaret Pass . Uphill climb: Riders push themselves to the limit during the 14th stage of the 101st Tour de France . Fatherly love: France's Samuel Dumoulin rides with his daughter as he takes the unofficial start . Nibali attacked the group of favourites at the 4-km banner and only Peraud could follow his wheel. Behind, Valverde struggled and he could not sustain the pace set by Pinot and Van Garderen in the chasing group. Majka was under threat by Nibali but he held firm to cross the line with a 24-second advantage. It . gave his Tinkoff-Saxo team something to cheer about after they lost . team leader Alberto Contador last week after the Spaniard broke his . shinbone crashing on a descent. 'We lost Alberto after putting a lot of efforts into this Tour, so we needed to win,' team owner Oleg Tinkoff said in tears.
