The Farc said it was declaring its assets - thought to include land as well as mining and transport investments - in a totally open manner.
The last of the major Cold War conflicts killed 260,000 people.
It left more than six million people internally displaced.
On Monday, at the signing of a historic agreement between the rebels and the government, rebel leader Timoleon Jimenez, known as Timochenko, apologised to "all the victims of the conflict".
But the guerrillas have up until now insisted they did not have the cash to pay compensation because all their financial resources were devoted to the war effort.
People in Colombia will vote later on whether to accept the terms of the historic peace deal before it can pass into law.
Critics of the agreement, signed after nearly four years of negotiations, have argued that the guerrillas would avoid paying damages even if they had means to do so.
But in a statement Farc said that they would declare to the government "the monetary and non-monetary resources" that have financed their war effort.
They said the assets would be reported over the 180-day period the rebels have to disarm.
Analysis - BBC South America correspondent Wyre Davies
This is arguably the most important vote in Colombia's history. Millions of people will answer a simple yes/no question to accept or throw out the peace deal between the centre right government of Juan Manuel Santos and the Marxist Farc guerrilla movement.
The historic agreement, which has already been signed but has to be ratified by the Colombian people, took four years of talks in Cuba.
It will see the former guerrillas reformed as a political movement. There are also proposals to hand over weapons, to demine vast areas of the country and to end the Farc's involvement in the drugs trade, through which they financed their operations.
After so many years of war, many Colombians strongly support the deal while others say the government has made too many concessions.
Both sides say there is no Plan "B" if the peace agreement is rejected.
Colombian authorities say the rebels possess huge tracts of valuable land, including cattle ranches, shops and construction companies, which helped the group launder money from drug trafficking, kidnapping and extortion.
Correspondents say that although there is widespread hope that the peace deal may bring an end to the kidnappings and bloodshed that have blighted Colombia over five decades, it has also led to divisions in Latin America's fourth-biggest economy.
Some people are angry that it allows rebels to enter parliament without serving time in prison.
1964: Set up as armed wing of Communist Party
2002: At its height, it had an army of 20,000 fighters controlling up to a third of the country. Senator Ingrid Betancourt kidnapped and held for six years along with 14 other hostages
2008: The Farc suffers a series of defeats in its worst year
2012: Start of peace talks in Havana
2016: Definitive ceasefire
Full timeline of Farc conflict
