Counter-terror police have arrested a 27-year-old man accused of financing extremists in Syria. The suspect was held this morning in Slough, Berkshire, under Section 17 of the Terrorism Act after an investigation by specialist officers. A top police chief once again sounded a warning against travelling to Syria, where hundreds of British extremists are fighting with Islamist groups. The arrest in Slough (pictured) comes a month after the same unit held six people across the South East . The South East Counter Terrorism Unit carried out the investigation as officers from Thames Valley Police moved to reassure locals. Superintendent Simon Bowden said: 'I would like to reassure the community that this investigation should have very little impact on local residents. 'The arrest was pre-planned and was not made in response to any immediate threat to public safety in Slough. 'We will continue to work with our partners and community in the interests of public safety . 'I would ask that we all continue to discourage anyone from attempting to travel to Syria or other areas of conflict.' Thames Valley Police Superintendent Simon Bowden said: 'I would ask that we all continue to discourage anyone from attempting to travel to Syria or other areas of conflict'. Hundreds of Brits are fighting abroad . There have been a string of arrests after Home Secretary Theresa May warned hundreds of Britons were travelling to fight with jihadis in Iraq and Syria. The arrest comes less than a week after four men were held in London on suspicion of a terror plot. The men aged between 19 and 27 were detained in west London and High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, on Thursday and Friday - days before Remembrance Sunday. Scotland Yard refused to comment on suggestions that the commemorations could have been the target of any plot. Today's arrest is the latest in a string of raids by the South East Counter Terrorism Unit. A 26-year-old man was held in Slough in July accused of financing terrorist acts. Two Slough homes were also raided in September as part of inquiries into seven terror suspects arrested in Holyhead, North Wales, but they were later released without charge. Crackdown: There have been several arrests in Britain over the rise of groups like ISIS in Syria (pictured) And six people were arrested across the region on October 14 on suspicion of terror crimes in Portsmouth, Hampshire, Greenwich, London and Farnborough, Surrey. Tuhin Shahensha, 26, and Mustakim Jaman, 23 - both from Southsea, Portsmouth - were charged with preparing terrorist acts. Two suspects remain on bail and two were released without charge. There is no indication the arrests are directly related to the one carried out today, but they are all part of the same wide-ranging bid to stop Brits causing unrest in Iraq and Syria. Chief Inspector Gavin Wong said previously: 'I would ask that we all continue to discourage anyone from attempting to travel to Syria or other areas of conflict. 'While the motive may be honourable, the reality is that these areas are hugely dangerous, and it can be an opportunity to radicalise vulnerable people.' Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
