A brave young girl left fighting for her life when she took the brunt of a horrific hit and run to save her two-year-old brother's life was last night released from hospital to celebrate her birthday. Sabah Saleem, 11, of Hyde Park in Leeds, West Yorkshire, and her brother Rayhan, who is now three, were badly injured in the hit and run which happened last August just yards from their home. But Sabah left Leeds General Infirmary for the first time last night to have a birthday party with her parents after making a remarkable recovery following weeks spent unconscious after the incident. Joy: There were family celebrations after an amazing recovery for children (left) Rayhan, three, and his sister Sabah Saleem, 11, who were knocked down in a hit and run just yards from their home in Leeds last August . On the day of the hit and run, Sabah and Rayhan were helping their family prepare for Eid al-Fitr to mark the end of Ramadan and were sent to a nearby shop with their cousin to buy some vegetables. Sabah had just finished reading the Koran and was looking forward to a party to celebrate - but the family’s festivities were cut short as she was struck down and medics battled to save her in hospital. Sabah was hailed a ‘hero’ by her relatives after it emerged that she was thought to have taken the brunt of the impact in a bid to shield her beloved brother from the force of the smash on August 18. But family members faced a wait for news after the incident - and their mother, housewife Tazeem Noor, 32 and father, IT analyst Mohammed Saleem, 37, maintained a tearful vigil for their children. Their uncle Aroon Rafique and further relatives were left caring for the couple’s other two daughters, aged eight and 10 months. Delight: Sabah (right) was hailed a 'hero' by her relatives after it emerged that she was thought to have taken the brunt of the impact in a bid to shield her beloved brother Rayhan (left) from the force of the smash . Mr Saleem said: ‘She (Sabah) had a great time at the party - it was lovely to spoil her and made a big difference from the jacket potatoes she has been eating in hospital. 'She had a great time at the party - it was lovely to spoil her and made a big difference from the jacket potatoes she has been eating in hospital' Mohammed Saleem, 37, father . ‘It’s brilliant having her home and the way she has improved is fantastic. She is still on the road to recovery but has come very far. She is such a great girl, a real hero. Since being in hospital she has had around seven operations but she never breaks down - she just goes along with it. 'She doesn’t really remember the crash. I think she just acted on instinct when she saved her brother and took the brunt. 'That’s the mark of a true hero. We told Rayhan that he fell from a swing. I think it’s better that way - he can’t remember it either. Treatment: Sabah left Leeds General Infirmary for the first time last night to have a birthday party with her parents after making a remarkable recovery following weeks spent unconscious after the incident . ‘Every time she gets herself down I show her pictures from the newspapers and the internet and show her how much people admire her. That always cheers her up.’ 'We told Rayhan that he fell from a swing. I think it’s better that way - he can’t remember it either' Mohammed Saleem, 37, father . Rayhan - who was less seriously injured because of his sister’s heroics - was released from hospital weeks after the incident but his family said he ‘lost his sparkle’ when he came home. Sabah has to undergo intense physiotherapy because her right-hand side is weaker following the crash - and her parents still don't know when she is likely to be discharged for good. A call to West Yorkshire Police to ascertain the latest on the case was not immediately returned.
