White working-class pupils need the same English language support as foreign classmates, a study suggests (stock pic) White working-class pupils should be given the same English language support as foreign classmates to stop them falling behind, according to a report. It found some working-class pupils cannot even recognise their own name when they start school – and there is not enough money to help them. It comes a week after a government report found white working-class pupils had the worst exam results of any ethnic group. The study, in the South London borough of Lambeth, found those children from ethnic minorities with English as a second language were articulate by the time they reached year six because of the level of support they had. They are also given a thorough induction to help with their English skills when they first arrive. White working-class pupils, on the other hand, who had language skills so bad they struggle to communicate with their peers had a severe lack of support. The report also found that social deprivation and the low aspirations of parents have fuelled low achievement among white, working-class pupils in England. The paper, which is being presented at a conference at London University’s Institute for Education today, concludes: ‘Members of staff felt school grants needed to be rethought as there is currently no money to support the language deficit within the white working-class community.’ One co-ordinator told researchers that pupils who had English as an additional language could recognise the difference between ‘bigger’ and ‘biggest’ – but ‘the white children did not have the vocabulary’. The authors, Dr Feyisa Demie, of Lambeth Council, and Dr Kirstin Lewis, from Goldsmith’s College, warn that the failure of government statistics to distinguish the white British ethnic group by social background has also masked  the problem. The study, drawing on statistical analysis, evidence from parents, focus groups and schools, confirms that one of the biggest groups of underachievers is the white working class and their performance, at both Key Stage two and Key Stage four, are considerably below those of all other major ethnic groups at national level. The study in the South London borough of Lambeth found children from . ethnic minorities with English as a second language were articulate by . the time they reached year six because of the level of support they had (stock pic) The national data shows that 32 per cent . of White British pupils eligible for Free School Meals (FSM) achieved . 5+A*- C grades at GCSE, compared with 65 per cent who are not eligible . for FSM. The gap is 33% compared to smaller gaps for all other ethnic . groups. The report also found that social deprivation and the low aspirations of parents have fuelled low achievement among white, working-class pupils in England. It found that the low achievement of many white working-class pupils has been obscured by middle-class success in the English school system.
